# homework review | 9:00 - 9:45
- GAMC App: Cars app



# Debugging Rails | 9:45 - 10:30
  - logs

    - when you start a Rails server, it creates a log file for the environment it's running under

    - check the "Rails.root/log" folder

      cat log/development.log

      tail development.log

    - it's worth always having a terminal window open with this:
      tail -f log/development.log 

      you can clear the contents of the log file, and Rails will continue to write to it
      but don't delete it and create a new - if you do, you need to restart the Rails server


  - "better-errors" & Pry

    - We've had very good results using pry in the command line apps, and even with Sinatra.

    - We can use it the same way in Rails... or make it better

    - add to gemfile:

      group :development, :test do
        gem 'pry-rails'
        gem 'pry-debugger'
        gem 'pry-stack_explorer'
        gem 'binding_of_caller'
        gem 'better_errors'
      end

    - break your app...

      def home
        x = 10
        y = 100
        1/0
      end

      This gives us an 'immediates' window in our browser :-)

    - beware!! DO NOT LEAVE IN PRODUCTION

      `ls > /home/michael/hax0rz.txt`

    - and you can still "binding.pry" like you have before

  - Rails panel
    - this is a Chrome extension that puts the Rails log file in our browser dev tools
      https://github.com/dejan/rails_panel

    - add to gemfile

    group :development do
      gem 'meta_request'
    end

    - install
      https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/railspanel/gjpfobpafnhjhbajcjgccbbdofdckggg


# break | 10:30 - 10:45


# Associations - stock code-along | 10:45 - 12:00
  rails new associations
  cd associations

- Associations between models make common operations simpler and easier in your code. 
  Consider a simple Rails application that includes a model for customers and a model for orders. Each customer can have lots of (many) orders, and a order belongs to a customer.

  rails g model Customer name:string
  rails g model Order customer_id:integer value:decimal
  rake db:migrate

  rails c

  c=Customer.create name: "michael"
  c2=Customer.create name: "james"
  c3=Customer.create name: "kim"
  Order.create customer_id: c.id, value: 10.32
  Order.create customer_id: c.id, value: 15.73
  Order.create customer_id: c2.id, value: 1.29
  Order.create customer_id: c2.id, value: 99.99
  Order.create customer_id: c.id, value: 110.33
  Order.create customer_id: c.id, value: 21.15
  Order.create customer_id: c2.id, value: 201.91
  Order.create customer_id: c3.id, value: 98.89

  - How do I find all the orders for Kim?

    Order.where customer_id: c3.id

  - All easy enough... easier than manual SQL. But there are some clunky bits (like needing to know the customer's id to create an order. And I'm lazy so I'd still prefer it easier.... 

  - What happens if I delete "james"? His orders are left in the system... or I have to check and delete them first.

  - With Active Record associations, we tell Rails that there is a connection between the two models. 

    class Customer < ActiveRecord::Base
      has_many :orders, dependent: :destroy
    end
     
    class Order < ActiveRecord::Base
      belongs_to :customer
    end

    // in console
    reload!

    Customer.first.orders

    Orders.count
    Customer.first.destroy # remeber I said to use 'destroy' not 'delete'? this is why :-)
    Orders.count

    Customer.first.orders.create(value: 100.00)

    Order.first.customer.orders

  - Types of association

    - belongs_to
      Sets up a connection between one model and another - it's the table upon which the foreign key resides.
      - We set up our Order model to belong_to Customer

    - has_one
      Sets up a one-to-one connection - essentially the same as belongs_to, but implies the foreign-key is on the associated table. It's used when there's only one Thing connected to one OtherThing
      - For instance, a Car has_one SteeringWheel, and a SteeringWheel belongs_to a Car.
      - Which side has_one and which belongs_to can be contencious

    - has_many
      Defines a one-to-many relationship. It would generally imply zero-or-more Things associated (but the scope could be restricted).
      - We said our Customer has_many Orders. 


    - has_and_belongs_to_many
      Sets up a many-to-many association. For instance, a Person can drive many Cars, and a Car can be driven by many People. It's a "traditional" join-table design - with two foreign keys. If you need any other information about the relationship between drives and cars (like the date the driving occurred, or how far the trip was), then another association type might be better....


    - has_many :through
      ...Such as "has_many :through". This sets up a many-to-many relationship "through" another associated model.
      For instance, a Game and Person could join through a "Playing" model. This would allow a Game to have_many Players (People), and for a Person to be Playing many Games.

      - If we add a DeliveryAddress model
        rails g model DeliveryAddress directions:text

        class DeliveryAddress < ActiveRecord::Base
          has_one :order
        end

      - and change Order to belong_to a DeliveryAddress
        rails g migration AddDeliveryAddressIdToOrders delivery_address_id:integer

        class Order < ActiveRecord::Base
          belongs_to :customer
          belongs_to :delivery_address
        end

      - we can set our Customer to have_many DeliveryAddresses through Orders
        class Customer < ActiveRecord::Base
          has_many :orders, dependent: :destroy
          has_many :delivery_addresses, through: :orders
        end
   
      - migrate and test in the console

        rake db:migrate
        rails c

        Order.all.each do |order|
          order.build_delivery_address directions: rand
          order.save
        end

        Customer.first.delivery_addresses


    - has_one :through
      Gives a single-association to another model, but through a third model.

      - we can reciprocate from DeliveryAddresses to set it to be able to access the Customer through its Order

        class DeliveryAddress < ActiveRecord::Base
          has_one :order
          has_one :customer, through: :order
        end

    - You can also associate a model to itself

      rails g model Employee name:string manager:references
      rake db:migrate
      rails c
      Employee

      Employee.create name: 'Bob'
      Employee.create name: 'John'


      - Rails has set up our foreign-key field, and also an association in Employee.
        We don't have a Manager model (though maybe in our OO world we might think to use inheritance to differentiate), but in this case, our managers are already in our DB as Employees themselves. 

        class Employee < ActiveRecord::Base
          belongs_to :manager, class_name: 'Employee'
          has_many :subordinates, class_name: "Employee", foreign_key: "manager_id"
        end

        reload!

        e = Employee.first
        m = Employee.last
        e.manager = m
        e.save
        Employee.first.manager

        Be careful of circular references! :-)

  - Query Caching - benefits of associations

    c = Customer.first
    c.orders # note the query that's run
    c.orders # what query runs this time?

  - http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v3.2.13/association_basics.html

  - Now we're associating properly, it increase the power of our AR queries... we'll revisit this next week




# lunch [Working as a Front-End Developer w/ Tim Ruffles | 12:00 - 13:00


# View Partials & Asset Pipeline | 13:00 - 14:00
- We're going to cover two areas of Rails, which we could spend a day on each... and we may do, but for now, we're just going to scoot through to cover the concepts.

- The Asset Pipeline is the way Rails streamlines serving assets.
  * CSS
  * JS
  * Images

http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v3.2.13/asset_pipeline.html

- The assets in a site rarely change, so the site can be sped up if the client has already downloaded versions of them.

- But there needs to be some way to let the client know that a server version of an asset has changed

- Also, when you might have to manage assets from several locations:
  * specific to the site
  * shared across multiple sites
  * brought in from gems, etc
  ...you want the difference to be transparent to the client, but easy for the developers to manage

- Enter the asset pipeline.
  - It compresses CSS & JS files to make them smaller, and quicker to download.
    - Even quicker if somewhere between the client and server there's caching going on.
  - If "fingerprints" the files, so that any changes cause them to be re-compressed, and the new versions to be provided in requests.

- Using the asset pipeline.
  - Any assets placed in subdirectories of "public" will ignore the pipeline, and will be served as static assets (just like in Sinatra)
  - Assets that need "preprocessing" (CoffeeScript, SCSS, SASS), need to be stored in app/assets/, lib/assets/, or vendor/assets subdirectories

- When we deploy our Rails app, we need to "compile" assets to have Rails put them in public/assets/
  rake assets:precompile

- The tool inside Rails that's doing all this for us is called "Sprockets"

- Look into the app/assets/stylesheets/application.css file
  - It looks like CSS comments (and the JS file looks like JS comments), but the "*=" are read as commands to Sprockets, and the CSS/JS files are applied in order (so beware of overwriting previous styles or functions)

    - require_self
      places any CSS/JS in this file in the location of the require_self call

    - require_tree
      recurses the given directory path and includes 

    - require file_name
      includes the given file - this could also require other files, so you could have a "my_favourite_plugins" file which has a dozen requirements to other files

  - The order of files listed is the order they load. If you definitely need one file loaded first put it higher in the list.
  - If a file is required more than once, it will only be included the first time.

  - Using assets
    - We're already doing it... look in the layout file:
        <%= stylesheet_link_tag "application" %>
        <%= javascript_include_tag "application" %>

        These are two helper functions that work with the asset pipeline.

    - To use images, use the image_tag helper
      <%= image_tag "rails.png" %>
      <%= image_tag "avatars/default.png" %>
      <%= image_tag "rails.png", {height: 100, width:200, alt: 'Rails Logo', id: 'rails_logo_image', class: 'logo_image'} %>
      <%= image_tag "rails.png", :size => "100x200" %>

    - There are two asset-path helpers worth remembering:
      <%= asset_path 'rails.png' %> # returns the full path of the asset
      <%= asset_data_uri 'rails.png' %> # turns the asset into base64-encoded data for inline inclusion

  - View Partials are another way of streamlining your code by breaking it into manageable chunks

  - Simply call "render 'filename'" from your view (or specify the path in the filename)

  - Often used to render the content of looped blocks or shared content (like forms - create/edit use the same form)

    <%= render "menu" %>
    <%= render partial: "menu" %>
      will render the file '_menu.html.erb' from the current view's path with all the current instance variables

    <%= render "shared/menu" %> 
      will share the 'app/views/shared/_menu.html.erb'

  - Partials have the same access to instance variables as views do, but need to be passed any local variables (like we have to with methods)
    - some people argue that partials *should not* use instance vars, since they can't guarentee where they're going to be included from, they won't 'know' what values have been set

    <table>
      <% @blogs.each do |blog| %>
        <%= render partial: "blog", locals: {blog: blog} %>
      <% end %>
    </table>

    // _blog.html.erb
    <tr>
      <td>
        <%=blog.subject%>
      </td>
    </tr>


    - Every partial also has a local variable with the same name as the partial (minus the underscore). You can pass an object in to this local variable via the :object option:

      <%= render partial: "customer", object: @new_customer %>
      
      Within the customer partial, the 'customer' variable will refer to @new_customer from the parent view.

    - To render a @customer instance of a Customer object with a _customer.html.erb partial:

      <%= render @customer %>

    - Simpler collection rendering
      - to simplify our @blogs example:

    <table>
      <%= render partial: "blog", collection: @blogs %>
    </table>

    or even:
      <%= render @blogs %>

  - http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v3.2.13/layouts_and_rendering.html


# SCSS | 14:00 - 15:00

# break | 15:00 - 15:15

# Asset lab | 15:15 - 17:00





