# Homework review  | 9:00 - 9:45







# break | 10:30 - 10:45

# Validations | 10:45 - 11:45
  - copy the 'associations' app from yesterday

  - ActiveRecord object either correspond to a DB row, or they've not been saved yet.

  c = Customer.new(:name => "John Doe")
  c.new_record?
  c.save
  c.new_record?

  - Validations are run before a record is saved. If any validations fail, the object does not get saved to the database.

  - Some AR methods do skip validations, but create, save, and update_attributes (and their bang alternatives) require validations to pass.
    - To skip manually:
      c.save(validate: false)

  - To check manually:
    .valid?
    .invalid?

  - Any errors are placed into the .errors collection

    # customer.rb
    validates :name, presence: true

    c = Customer.new
    c.errors # .to_a
    c.valid?
    c.errors # .to_a

    c.save
    c.save!
    c.name = "gimme a name"

    c.save

  - Some validations:
    presence

    length
      validates :name, :length => { :minimum => 2 } 
      validates :bio, :length => { :maximum => 500 }
      validates :password, :length => { :in => 8..255 }
 
    numericality
      validates :points, :numericality => true
      validates :games_played, :numericality => { :only_integer => true }
      - also allows for :greater_than, :less_than, :odd, :even, :equal, et al.

    uniqeness
      validates :email, :uniqueness => true

  - lots more besides
    We're not going into them, they're in the api

  - Conditionally validating
    - Sometimes we only want to validate if certain conditions are met: 
 
    - :if and :unless

      # with symbol for method
      class Order < ActiveRecord::Base
        validates :card_number, :presence => true, :if => :paid_with_card?
       
        def paid_with_card?
          payment_type == "card"
        end
      end

      # with Proc
      class User < ActiveRecord::Base
        validates :password, :confirmation => true, :unless => Proc.new { |u| u.user.blank? }
      end

    - :on
      Lets you specify when the validation should take place - create/update/save (defaults to 'save')

      class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
        # it will be possible to update email with a duplicated value
        validates :email, :uniqueness => true, :on => :create
       
        # it will be possible to create the record with a non-numerical age
        validates :age, :numericality => true, :on => :update
       
        # the default (validates on both create and update)
        validates :name, :presence => true, :on => :save
      end

  - Custom Validation 
    - write your own methods to verify the state of your objects

      class Invoice < ActiveRecord::Base
        validate :active_customer, :on => :create
       
        def active_customer
          errors.add(:customer_id, "is not active") unless customer.active?
        end
      end

  - Errors object
    c.errors.class

    - retrieve errors by attribute name
      c.errors[:name]

    - adding to errors
      We saw this in the custom validator
        c.errors.add(:name, "too hard to spell")

    - if the error doesn't match a certain field, add to the object's base
      c.errors[:base] << "This customer is invalid because ..."

    - all errors
      c.errors.full_messages

    - errors in views
      - look in scaffold


  http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v3.2.13/active_record_validations_callbacks.html 



# Deploying to Heroku | 11:45 - 12:30
  - Heroku is a cloud platform service. Essentially it's virtual hosting for your apps. And it's free - as in beer - 

    # add your ssh-key to your Heroku account.

    # install toolbelt https://toolbelt.heroku.com/

    rails new deploy_test -d postgresql

    echo ruby-1.9.3-p392 > .ruby_version

    # add "ruby '1.9.3'" to Gemfile

    rake db:create

    rails g scaffold Customer

    git init

    git add .

    git commit -m "initial commit"

    heroku create

    heroku run rake db:migrate


# lunch | 12:30 - 13:30

# Reflection | 13:30 - 14:00

# review the week (Kim) | 14:00 - 15:15

# break | 15:15 - 15:30

# Koans | 15:30 - 16:30

# Homework - PROJECT 1!!    
    


