- Explain what BDD/TDD is and its benefits. Compare it to "cowboy coding."

  - Makes you think about what code you NEED before you actually write your code
  - Creates a detailed specification and history of your application, making it easy to return to and to onboard new collaborators
  - Forces radical simplification of the code – you will only write code in response to the requirements of the tests.

- Explain what yield does when called in a method

  - When a method expects a block, that block invokes it by calling the yield function.

- Draw an ERD for the following app using proper notation.  A user can have zero or many blog posts, and each blog post can have zero or many comments.

- Explain what a database is and why you would use one as opposed to other persistent storage mechanisms

  - a database allows persistent storage of data
    - relational databases allow you to relate one piece of data to another via foreign keys
    - databases allow you to place constraints on your data to ensure consistency

- Explain what a foreign key is and why you would use one

  - a foreign key is a column in a database table that identifies a related piece of data via a unique identifier (usually a primary key). We use foreign keys to map the relationships between different types of data.

- Give examples of use cases for Ruby's `.each`, `.select`, and `.map` methods.

  - `.each` allows us to go over every item in a collection doing whatever we please with those items, BUT! It returns the original unaltered array.
  - `.select` requires the programmer to specify a certain condition for the items in an a collection to meet. it itereates through every item in the array its been called upon, evaluating whether that item meets the criteria. It then 
  returns an array of only those items that have met the specified criteria. 
  - `.map` allows you to create a new array based on another. It returns this new array.

- Explain what a database 'constraint' is

  - constraints define certain properties that data in a database must comply with. If you try to make an entry in the db and the constraint isn't complied with, the record won't be saved.

- What is a document outline?

  - The document outline is the structure of a document, generated by the document's headings, form titles, table titles, and any other appropriate landmarks to map out the document. The user agent can apply this information to generate a table of contents, for example.

- Compare and contrast arrays and hashes and when you would use each

  - Arrays are ordered, integer-indexed collections of any object. Array indexing starts at 0, as in C or Java. A negative index is assumed to be relative to the end of the array—that is, an index of -1 indicates the last element of the array, -2 is the next to last element in the array, and so on. 

  - A Hash is a collection of key-value pairs. It is similar to an Array, except that indexing is done via arbitrary keys of any object type, not an integer index. Hashes enumerate their values in the order that the corresponding keys were inserted.

    - _NOTE:__ Hashes have a default value that is returned when accessing keys that do not exist in the hash. By default, that value is nil.

- Explain what "auto-incrementing primary key" means for a database table

  - Primary keys are usually integers that increment with each new entry in the database, to ensure you have a unique value that identifies each row in the database. They are used to optimize joins between tables.

- Explain the difference between a class and an instance

  - a class is the abstract description of an object, whereas an instance is a tangible example of that definition

- Explain what RSpec is

  - RSpec is a testing framework for Ruby programs. It can be considered a domain-specific language (DSL) and resembles a natural language specification.

- Explain what `require_relative` does and give an example an example of where we would use it

  - `require_relative` allows you to load a file that is relative to the file containing the require_relative statement.

- Explain the difference between a class method and an instance method, and provide an example of each

  - Class methods are methods that are called on a class and instance methods are methods that are called on an instance of a class.
  - In defining a class method, the method name must be prepended with `self.`

- Explain the difference between local, instance and class variables
  - instance variables are prepended with an `@` and belong to a particular instance of a class.
  - class variables are declared within a class definition, and are shared by all objects of a class. They are prepended with `@@`
  - The scope of a __local variable__ is limited to the class, module, method, or block in which it's assigned. Local variables begin with a lowercase letter or an underscore.

- Write a class that inherits from another class

- Explain ACID in laymans terms 
  - ACID is a set of properties that guarantee that database transactions are processed reliably.
    - Atomicity
      - Atomicity requires that each transaction is "all or nothing": if one part of the transaction fails, the entire transaction fails, and the database state is left unchanged. (Think a transfer of funds from one person to another, if you debit the giver but the recipient doesn't receive the funds due to a database malfunction, the debit from the giver is rolled back.) An atomic system must guarantee atomicity in each and every situation, including power failures, errors, and crashes. To the outside world, a committed transaction appears (by its effects on the database) to be indivisible ("atomic"), and an aborted transaction does not happen.
    - Consistency
      - The consistency property ensures that any transaction will bring the database from one valid state to another. Any data written to the database must be valid according to all defined rules, including but not limited to constraints, cascades, triggers, and any combination thereof.
    - Isolation
      - The isolation property ensures that the concurrent execution of transactions results in a system state that would be obtained if transactions were executed serially, i.e. one after the other.
    - Durability 
      - Durability means that once a transaction has been committed, it will remain so, even in the event of power loss, crashes, or errors. In a relational database, for instance, once a group of SQL statements execute, the results need to be stored permanently (even if the database crashes immediately thereafter). To defend against power loss, transactions (or their effects) must be recorded in a non-volatile memory.

- Explain what ActiveRecord is

  - Active Record is an Object Relational Mapper (ORM) written in Ruby, which allows us to create Ruby objects from persisted data, mapping rows from our database into Ruby objects, and mapping Ruby objects into rows in a table. It also abstracts a ton of SQL so that the user doesn't need to write it.
