- Define what a library is and what they are called in Ruby
  - A library is a common solution to a common problem. Ruby libraries are called gems. 

- Articulate an approach to learning a new library
  - Identify what problem the library solves
  - Identify the way in which the library solves that problem
  - Identify alternatives
  - Read the documentation, particularly the documentation's explanation of the how the documentation is structured

- Identify what an ORM is and why we use it (vs. writing raw SQL)
  - An ORM is an object-relational mapper, which allows you to map a row in a database to an object in memory and vice versa. We use an ORM because it handles lengthy SQL writing for us. It also creates "prepared statements" for us, to protect from SQL injection. 

- Explain the basic idea of metaprogramming and how AR leverages this to provide an interface to the db. 
  - Metaprogramming is code that writes code at runtime. A brief example: when we tell a model to inherit from ActiveRecord::Base, ActiveRecord defines getter and setter instance methods that correspond to each of the attributes found in that model's database table.

- Compare and contrast SQL constraints with AR validations
  - SQL constraints are enforced at the db level, whereas AR validations occur in memory before anything is even communicated to the db. AR validations are database agnostic. 

- Explain how we use ActiveRecord to manage relationships
  - We use metaprogramming methods like has_one, has_many, belongs_to, and has_many :through, which provide us with the appropriate instance methods for finding associated records in the database.

- Set up an Active Record association for a one-to-many relationship

- Explain what shoulda matchers are and why they're useful
  - shoulda-matchers provide RSpec-compatible one-liners that test common Rails functionality. Manually-written tests would otherwise be much longer, more complex, and error-prone.

- Define what a communications protocol is
  - a communications protocol is a system of digital rules for data exchange within or between computers.

- Name the four basic layers of the Internet Protocol Suite (the TCP/IP stack)
  - the application layer
  - the transport layer
  - the internet layer
  - the link layer

- Describe the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and what problems it solves
  - The Transmission Control Protocol provides reliable, ordered and error-checked delivery of information packets between programs running on computers connected to a wide network.

- Describe the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and what an HTTP request is
  - The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application protocol for distributed information systems. It is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web.

- Describe what Sinatra is and what it is used for
  - a domain specific language for developing web applications in Ruby

- Distinguish between a route and a path
  - a path is a sequence of segments (conceptually similar to directories, though not necessarily representing them) separated by a forward slash ("/"). 
  - a route is a combination of an HTTP request and a path

- Define routes using Sinatra

- Explain the idea of "separation of concerns" and why it is so important
  - separation of concerns (SoC) is a design principle for separating a computer program into distinct sections, such that each section addresses a separate concern. This allows teams to work on distinct sections of a piece of software without interference. All one section might need to know about another is how to interface with it.

- Explain the different roles of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

- Articulate the concept of "Convention over configuration" and the tradeoffs associated with it
  - Convention over configuration (also known as coding by convention) is a software design paradigm which seeks to decrease the number of decisions that developers need to make, gaining simplicity, but not necessarily losing flexibility

- What is the Document Outline?
  - The document outline is the structure of a document, generated by the document's headings, form titles, table titles, and any other appropriate landmarks to map out the document. The user agent can apply this information to generate a table of contents, for example.







